---
title:  The Art of Luck in Chess
author: Antony Hall
description: The winner of this year's club championship reflects on the role of luck in his victories
---

Martin asked if I would consider writing a piece about my experiences in
the recent S&BCC Club Championship, which I was fortunate enough to win.
I realised I was quite lucky to win ~~some~~ most of my games, so I
thought I'd concentrate on my lucky moments, of which there were many!
I've also added the URLs if you want to play through the entire games on
lichess.

Generally, I found the 15m+5s increment tricky to get used to, as I
usually play 5+0 blitz on lichess. At times, I was playing too quickly
or thinking too much.

<div class="clearfix"></div>


## Round 1

<div class="clearfix"></div>

{% include ahimage.html url="/assets/ahpics/ah1.png" %}

In R1, I was white against **Paul Ritchie**. I thought I was being
clever in this position as early as move 5(!) with c3 because, if Paul
took the pawn, I have Qe5 threatening mate, which can only be prevented
by black giving up a knight on h6. (A similar position can often arise
in the Scotch Gambit if black plays Bb4+ followed by c3, dxc3, bxc3 and
then the natural-looking retreat Be7.)

Paul did indeed take on c3. But, in this case, after castling, my Bh6 is
en prise and black threatens cxb2 wining my Rook. With hindsight I
probably could have dropped my Bishop back to c1, but in the game I gave
it back to shatter black's K-side with Bxg7.

<div class="clearfix"></div>



{% include ahimage.html url="/assets/ahpics/ah2.png" %}

Then, a few moves later, I played 9.Qe5
(see diagram right). I'm sure Paul smelt a rat as to why I hadn't
dropped the queen back to d1. If Paul plays Nc2+ and takes my Rook, I
just follow up Bh6 with a forced mate (as the f7 pawn is pinned), but I
forgot black can interpose with Bf6. Oops! Fortunately, Paul played 9...
Bd6 here and I just recaptured on c3 with my queen, a piece to the good.
Paul fought valiantly but in the end I was able to convert my material
advantage.

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/siqwRFLjtvJR](https://lichess.org/siqwRFLjtvJR)

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Round 2

<div class="clearfix"></div>

!{% include ahimage.html url="/assets/ahpics/ah3.png" %}

R2 saw me paired against **Michael Chung**, who has always given me
tough games online, despite his lower rating. On the black side of a
Pirc, it was a race on different sides of the board as I rushed my
kingside pawns towards his king, while he was slower getting going on
the queenside. I thought I was going to open up his king, but it wasn't
as straightforward as I realised as Michael stuck it on h1 and my attack
was petering out.

In the diagram (right), Black's last move had been 27\...Nh5-f4 (when
Droidfish points out dropping the knight back to f6 followed by g4 is
much better -- sometimes moving a piece *backwards* is the correct
option!). Play continued 28.Nxf3? Nfg2? *(28... Nxf3 29.Qxf3 Nd3 is
crushing for Black)* 29.Nxh4 and Michael had forgotten his queen was
hanging -- 29\...Nxe3. I was able to check mate him a few moves later.

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/oKgV1SuwyQJo](https://lichess.org/oKgV1SuwyQJo)

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Round 3

<div class="clearfix"></div>

I was white against **Alan Romeril** in R3. A Bb5 Sicilian was
level-pegging. Alan refuted my less than subtle attempts to mate him on
the kingside, and it looked like we might repeat moves. To avoid this, I
decided to give up a pawn to activate my pieces, which didn't achieve
much beyond getting ride of one of my opponent's bishop pair, so we were
left with Q+2R each, with opposite-coloured bishops, and me a pawn down.
Alan snaffled a further pawn on the Q-side, but I created some attacking
chances by desperately shoving my g-pawn forward, which led to a forced
swap of queens and I got one of the pawns back. With R+B each and a pawn
down, I offered a draw which was accepted. My pawns were on the same
colour as my bishop and I thought I'd be able to hold the draw. Luckily,
Alan agreed!

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/gbOOKRZ7LaM0](https://lichess.org/gbOOKRZ7LaM0)

2.5/3 -- not bad going at the halfway stage\...

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Round 4

<div class="clearfix"></div>

I knew it would get tougher on the second Thursday. As I was one of four
players on 2.5, I was paired with the black pieces against one of my
co-leaders in R4, **Graham Keane**, by ECF grade (199) the strongest
player in the competition. We transposed into a Pirc and he launched an
aggressive attack on my king (this is an occupational hazard if you play
the Pirc!).

We got to the following position (which Droidfish actually assesses as
being better for me -- which I didn't think during the game).

{% include ahimage.html url="/assets/ahpics/ah4.png" %}

I played 17\...f6 (which I was quite pleased with, but Droidfish much prefers
17\...Rh8). Graham gave up the exchange with 18.Rxh5
to prise open my King. I was attempting to keep the Bd3-h7 diagonal
closed. Then he gave up a knight to try and land the knockout blow. Lots
of ways for me to go wrong! I was a Rook up but I gave back the exchange
to leave me with Q+R+B+N+3p against Graham's Q+R+N+5p. Graham then gave
check with his knight, and I could have swapped it off for my rook but
we were down to about 10 seconds each and surviving on 5-second
increments, so we repeated moves and split the point.

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/H7rW7TZ7KIAd](https://lichess.org/H7rW7TZ7KIAd)

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Round 5

<div class="clearfix"></div>

{% include ahimage.html url="/assets/ahpics/ah5.png" %}
In R5, I knew I'd be facing **Martin
Smith**, the tournament '2nd seed' (168 ECF). He had won in R4 by
beating Alan so was half a point ahead of me: only a win would do! My
record against Martin on lichess isn't anything to write home about
(before the game, he was 4-1 up). Unfortunately, I played my King's
Indian very passively and my pieces were poorly placed. My king was
fairly secure on the kingside, but Martin had castled long and I was
struggling to land a blow. Droidfish had Martin as better for most of
the game, and he gave me plenty of chances to go wrong, but I hung on
(which involved avoiding several queen swaps).

In this position, I'd actually managed to equalise. Martin played 46.Rc6
here, but is lost after my reply 46\...Qb4 and he resigned after a long
think.

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/VV3pL48mMc6f](https://lichess.org/VV3pL48mMc6f)

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Round 6

<div class="clearfix"></div>

In the final round I was paired against **Lawrence Wakefield**, an
unknown quantity for me. I was able to build up a big lead on the clock
as his pieces got in each other's way and my moves largely played
themselves. Lawrence commented afterwards that "I think all my pieces
were on the wrong squares for a very long time", which is probably a
fair summary. In time trouble, he dropped a few pawns and then a rook
before he threw in the towel. This was probably the only game where I
felt like I was in control of events.

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/7ccWSPcCOtrE](https://lichess.org/7ccWSPcCOtrE)

<div class="clearfix"></div>

## Tie-break

Graham and I both finished on 5/6 and, as we'd drawn our individual
game, we had to play an armageddon finish. As white, I had 6 mins to
Graham's 5 (no increments), but he only had to draw whereas I had to
win. I had to give up a pawn to escape an annoying bishop pin and we got
to this position. Still time for one more slice of luck!

{% include ahimage.html url="/assets/ahpics/ah6.png" %}


Graham played 27\...Nxd2 here, when just doubling the rooks on the
d-file would have won the bishop (as my rook is pinned) and the game. I
was a pawn down in a rook ending but managed to win on time as I was
moving faster -- Graham said he'd forgotten we weren't using increments.

*Game link:*
[https://lichess.org/OyGVI3cWSuNB](https://lichess.org/OyGVI3cWSuNB)

As an aside, I can recommend *How to be Lucky in Chess* by David LeMoir,
one of my Norfolk team mates. Lots of practical tips!

